Deploy to ECS (#181)
avantifellows/plio-frontend: docs/DEPLOYMENT.md

This document covers steps on setting up this repository on various cloud hosting providers.

  - [AWS](#aws)

### AWS

#### Pre-requisites
Deploying on AWS requires a basic understanding of the following tools and services:
1. Docker
2. GitHub actions & workflows
3. GitHub environments and secrets
4. AWS Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
5. AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)
6. AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
7. AWS Fargate
8. AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELB)
9. AWS Elastic IPs
10. AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
11. AWS Relational Database Service (RDS)

#### Staging
Setting up staging environment on AWS is pretty straightforward.
1. Login to your AWS console.
2. Go to VPC. (skip this step if you've already created a VPC when setting up backend repository)
   1. Create a new VPC.

>    2. Name it `plio-staging-vpc`.

Author: Yeah I'll work on that.

>    3. In IPv4 CIDR block, enter `10.0.0.0/28`.

Reviewer: default value - some link

   4. Click on create button. You will see the new VPC under the list of VPCs.

> 3. Create a new Elastic IP by going to EC2 dashboard and navigating to Elastic IP section.

Reviewer: used to give load balancer a permanent Ip address

   1. Click on Allocate Elastic IP address and click on Allocate button.
   2. You will see a new IP address in the IPs list. Name it `plio-frontend-staging`.
4. Go to Target groups.
   1. Create a new target group.
   2. Choose target type to be `IP addresses`.

>    3. Name the target group as `plio-frontend-staging`.

Reviewer: yes

   4. Select the `plio-staging-vpc` for the target group VPC.
   5. Proceed to create target group. You will see target group in the list.
5. Go to Load Balancers.
   1. Create a new load balancer.

>    2. Select Network Load Balancer option.

Reviewer: one comment - to enable web socket connections which are not allowed in ALB

   3. Name the LB as `plio-frontend-staging`.
   4. Select the `plio-staging-vpc` for the load balancer.
   5. In the subnet mappings, check the first desired zone and use Elastic IP under IPv4 settings for that subnet.
   6. Under listeners and routing, select the target group `plio-frontend-staging` for TCP port 80.
   7. Proceed to create load balancer. You will see load balancer in the list.
6. Go to ECR and create a new repository named `plio-frontend-staging`.
7. Now go to ECS and create a new task definition with name `plio-frontend-staging`.
   1. Set the task role as `ecsTaskExecutionRole`.
   2. Set the task memory and task CPU based on your needs.
   3. Create a new container with name `plio-frontend-staging`.
   4. Enter port `80` in the port mapping field.
   5. Save the container definition and the task definition.
   6. You will see the new task definition within the list.
8. Go to clusters and create a new cluster with name `plio-staging-cluster`. (skip this step if you've already created a VPC when setting up backend repository)
   1. Use `Networking only` option

>    2. Create a new VPC for your cluster.

Reviewer: TODO: link to the older VPC

   3. Click on create button.
   4. You will see the new cluster within the list of clusters.
9.  Get into `plio-staging-cluster` and create a new service.
   5. Set launch type to Fargate. We'll use serverless deployments for Plio.
   6. Name the service as `plio-staging-frontend`.
   7. Under task definition, select `plio-frontend-staging` and use latest revision.
   8. Number of tasks to be one.
   9. Service type to be `REPLICA`.

>    10. Minimum healthy percentage should be 100 and maximum percent to be 200.

Reviewer: attempting to write 1-2 liners about the importance of this.

   11. Deployment type to be `rolling update`.
   12. Keep other values as default.
   13. Use the Cluster VPC and the subnet that you configured with Elastic IP.

>    14. Auto-assign public IP to have `ENABLED`.

Reviewer: one line: else makes task not publicly accessible.

7. AWS Fargate
8. AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELB)
9. AWS Elastic IPs
10. AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
11. AWS Relational Database Service (RDS)

#### Staging
Setting up staging environment on AWS is pretty straightforward.
1. Login to your AWS console.
2. Go to VPC. (skip this step if you've already created a VPC when setting up backend repository)
   1. Create a new VPC.
   2. Name it `plio-staging-vpc`.
   3. In IPv4 CIDR block, enter `10.0.0.0/28`.
   4. Click on create button. You will see the new VPC under the list of VPCs.
   5. Check out this [AWS guide for more details on VPC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/working-with-vpcs.html).
3. Create a new Elastic IP by going to EC2 dashboard and navigating to Elastic IP section.
   1. Click on Allocate Elastic IP address and click on Allocate button.
   2. You will see a new IP address in the IPs list. Name it `plio-frontend-staging`.
   3. This will be used in later steps to give the load balancer a permanent IP address.
4. Go to Target groups.
   1. Create a new target group.
   2. Choose target type to be `IP addresses`.
   3. Name the target group as `plio-frontend-staging`.

>    4. Select the `plio-staging-vpc` for the target group VPC.

Reviewer: Had to assign an IP as a target here.

>    4. Select the `plio-staging-vpc` for the target group VPC.

Reviewer: had to select Protocol as TCP instead of HTTP

   5. Proceed to create target group. You will see target group in the list.
5. Go to Load Balancers.
   1. Create a new load balancer.
   2. Select Network Load Balancer option. We use NLB for easy support of web socket connections.
   3. Name the LB as `plio-frontend-staging`.
   4. Select the `plio-staging-vpc` for the load balancer.
   5. In the subnet mappings, check the first desired zone and use Elastic IP under IPv4 settings for that subnet.
   6. Under listeners and routing, select the target group `plio-frontend-staging` for TCP port 80.
   7. Proceed to create load balancer. You will see load balancer in the list.
6. Go to ECR and create a new repository named `plio-frontend-staging`.

> 7. Now go to ECS and create a new task definition with name `plio-frontend-staging`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Now go to ECS and create a new task definition, select Fargate and use the name `plio-frontend-staging`.
```

   1. Set the task role as `ecsTaskExecutionRole`.
   2. Set the task memory and task CPU based on your needs.
   3. Create a new container with name `plio-frontend-staging`.

>    4. Enter port `80` in the port mapping field.

Reviewer: need to add an image url

   5. Save the container definition and the task definition.
   6. You will see the new task definition within the list.
8. Under ECS, go to clusters and create a new cluster with name `plio-staging-cluster`. (skip this step if you've already created a VPC when setting up backend repository)
   1. Use `Networking only` option. We will go with serverless deployment so that we don't worry about managing our own server instances.
   2. Don't create a new VPC for your cluster. We'll use the VPC created in previous step in the next step of creating a service.
   3. Click on create button.
   4. You will see the new cluster within the list of clusters.
9.  Get into `plio-staging-cluster` and create a new service.
   1. Set launch type to Fargate. We'll use serverless deployments for Plio.

>    2. Name the service as `plio-staging-frontend`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Name the service as `plio-frontend-staging`.
```
